# Udacity Data Engineer Nanodegree - Data Modeling with Postgres
# Creating an ETL Pipeline and database schema

## Project Introduction

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.
The project involve creating a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis and ETL pipeline for this analysis.

## Description
The project involves creates database schema using STAR schema as it would ease enable simplified queries and fast aggregations and an ETL pipeline that transfers data from files in two local directories into these tables in Postgres using Python and SQL.


### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. 

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## Schema Schema for Song Play Analysis
Using the song and log datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

### Fact Table
**songplays** - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

### Dimension Tables
**users** - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

**songs** - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

**artists** - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude

**time** - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


## Project Files:
1. test.ipynb displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
2. create_tables.py drops and creates your tables. Run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
3. etl.ipynb reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
4. etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. 
5. sql_queries.py contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
6. README.md provides discussion on your project.